Add documentation around release branches (#7031)
red-hat-storage/ocs-ci: docs/release_guidelines.md

> # OCS-CI Release Branches

Reviewer: What about to make link to this documentation file in this coding guidelines here: https://github.com/red-hat-storage/ocs-ci/blob/master/docs/coding_guidelines.md

Author: I thought about this but the content is focused on coding style and not necessarily our PR process. Would it make more sense to link from our [code review doc?](https://github.com/red-hat-storage/ocs-ci/blob/master/docs/code_review.md)

The second goal is greater consistency in the framework. Now that we have release branches that exist for testing older versions of the product, we don't need to carry logic forward to handle every version forever. We have many areas of the code that are performing checks on the product version and then performing actions if we are deploying or testing a version greater than a specific version. This will no longer be necessary once it can be assumed that the latest code will always include a feature and so the code that is performing this version check can be removed. This will enable us to reduce the amount of code in the framework that simply exists to make sure our framework is doing something that the product supports based on version, reducing a lot of technical debt.

Overall, implementing release branches should allow us greater stability in testing existing releases as well as reducing the complexity of some of our framework code.

## Supported versions and use-cases

> Release branches will support deployments and testing of ODF/OCP versions N and N-1, N being the version specified in the name of the branch.

Author: While that's true I didn't think we wanted to instruct people to use a release branch for N+1 when they would be better off using either the next release branch or stable in the event the release branch doesn't exist yet.

It does technically support deploying the next version once we add it to the supported versions list and add relevant configs, but it won't include all of the potential feature code for that release or new test cases.

N: Standard use-case of deployment and testing the version specified in the release branch name.
N-1: For upgrade purposes. We need to be able to deploy N-1, run pre-upgrade tests, upgrade and reload configs for version N, then run post-upgrade tests. This process requires that release branches support the deployment and testing of previous versions.

For example, the branch release-4.8 will be able to deploy OCP/ODF 4.8 as well as 4.7 to support upgrade testing. However, it will not officially support deployment or testing of versions <= 4.6.

## Usage

### Locally

As these are simply git branches we are creating, you just need to perform a git checkout on the specific release branch you wish to run your deployment or tests with in order to use it.

```
git fetch upstream
git checkout release-4.12
```

> Note that `upstream` is the name of the remote for the base repository, not your personal fork.

Author: Did this for all of the existing notes, thanks!

### Jenkins

From Jenkins we will automatically be using the release branch if no other ocs-ci branch has been specified. Which specific release branch we use will be dynamically based on the `OCS_VERSION` or `UPGRADE_OCS_VERSION` parameters. For example, if `OCS_VERSION` is 4.13 we will use `release-4.13`. If this release branch doesn't exist yet, we will default back to the `stable` branch. This logic can be overridden by specifying a branch to use.

> ## Creating Release Branches

Reviewer 2: would be good to say that branches are planned to be created around the GA time of the corresponding ODF release.
and also, that it's a one-off thing and there is no expectation that people would create branches regularly on their own

Author: I emphasized that the branch creation process is done by the project maintainers and done in conjunction with the ODF GA

### Github UI

From the Github UI, navigate to the list of [branches](https://github.com/red-hat-storage/ocs-ci/branches). From here you can click on new branch, selecting the `stable` branch as the base. Note that the branch creation process only works this way if the latest stable commit is the point we wish to branch off from. Otherwise we will need to create the branch using the CLI.

### CLI

First, ensure your local repository is up to date with the remote. Note that the following command is destructive so make sure you have any local changes stashed or committed before continuing.
```
git checkout master && git fetch --all && git reset --hard upstream/master
```

Checkout the stable branch
```
git checkout stable
```

Determine the starting point of the new release branch, for this you will need the git hash. You can find this using:
```
git log
```

Once you know the hash, we will create the new release branch using the hash from earlier as the base. Note that x.y is the major.minor version.
```

> git checkout -b release-x.y 46568b9b4b8c2ceabad665b839655e0b19ab3634

Author: Updated that section to use the tag instead of the commit hash

```

Finally, push the branch to the remote.
```
git push upstream release-x.y

> ```

Reviewer: Also I would add info that those release branches are automatically protected and require the same PR validation checks as master branch, because of wildcard rule `release-*` we apply in the repository branches configuration.

Author: Added a note about this

## Backporting Changes

> Most changes to the repository will end up being merged to master, propagage to the stable branch and evnetually end up on the next release branch. Critical bug fixes or important test cases may be selected to be backported to existing release branches. In order to backport changes to an existing release branch, we will need to take the following steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most changes to the repository will end up being merged to master, propagated to the stable branch and eventually end up on the next release branch. Critical bug fixes or important test cases may be selected to be backported to existing release branches. In order to backport changes to an existing release branch, we will need to take the following steps.
```

Author: Fixed

> 

Reviewer: What about new fixes related only to specific release? Maybe we should document those as well that those can be directly created on top of particular release branch and we can create PR only on specific release branch instead of fix going through master and all branches till e.g. release-4.8.  And the following rule of support `N-1` , the change should be cherrypicked to `N+1` as well. So in this case I am thinking better to create change to directly `N+1` and have it cherrypicked to `N-1` .  WDYT?

Author: I think if a change is necessary for the latest code/release and older code it should always be merged to master then cherry picked backwards. I don't think we should be first merging changes to previous releases then cherry picking forward to more recent releases.

In the event that we are adding a bugfix ONLY for a previous release, one that doesn't need to be merged to master, we would just raise a pull request against that release branch without the need to cherry-pick anything. I can add some doc around that, but I think this will be an uncommon case.

Reviewer: As we discussed in meeting:
Commit for version 4.8 which is deployment or pre upgrade test related.
For scenario:
Upgrade from 4.8 -> 4.9
We run from:
release-4.9
The change should go first to 4.9 and cherry-picked to 4.8 release branch.

Author: Added a section about this edge-case below

### Creating a cherry-pick PR

> The first step in the process will be to checkout the master branch and ensure it is up to date, as well as fetch remote branches. Note that the following command is destructive so make sure you have any local changes stashed or committed before continuing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in the process will be to checkout the master branch and ensure it is up to date, as well as fetch remote branches. 

> Note that the following command is destructive so make sure you have any local changes stashed or committed before continuing.
```

This will be better visible in the doc.

```
git checkout master && git fetch --all && git reset --hard upstream/master
```

Before we can cherry-pick our change we will need to know the commit hash. You can find this using:
```
git log
```

Once we have the hash, we will create a local branch based off of the release branch we wish to backport our changes to.
```
git checkout -b release-4.8-cherry-pick-pr-4765 upstream/release-4.8
```

Then, we will cherry pick the commit to our branch using the hash.
```
git cherry-pick 46568b9b4b8c2ceabad665b839655e0b19ab3634
```

And push our branch to our fork of the repository.
```
git push origin release-4.8-cherry-pick-pr-4765
```

> Once we have our branch pushed to our fork, we can then open a pull request from Github. Be sure to change the base branch to the target release branch (in our example this would be `release-4.8`).

Reviewer 3: It might be worth to emphasize the **Be sure to change the base branch to the target release branch (in our example this would be `release-4.8`).**

Author: Done!
